Now that we've gotten everything set up in our editing software, the next step is going to be pulling
our Selex.
And simply put, pulling your Selex is choosing the shots that are going to be in the video and taking
out the shots that aren't going to be in the video.
So, for example, if you have something with multiple takes in this stage, you're going to be taking
out the best version that you want and cutting out the rest.
This is all about building your foundation of your edit.
It's not about making the actual rough cut yet or something that's viewable or ready to be seen by friends,
families, clients, whatever it is.
And so there's two fundamental ways to do this.
The first way is by labeling the clips in your project window or by cutting the clips in the timeline,
labeling your footage in the viewer allows for kind of more precise editing, but really keeps track
of exact shots where they are.
By labeling them.
And the second way, which is bringing everything into the timeline, which is what we've done, and
then pulling selects is a lot quicker and a lot more practical.
I personally like this timeline method.
It's way easier to put the clips in order.
And then I use color to kind of categorize them in the timeline, which is what we're going to walk
through here.
And a nice little extra tip is that once we've pulled our selects, we're going to actually create a
backup sequence of that timeline sequence of selects.
So let's get into this process now.
Like I mentioned, the first and my least favorite way to pull selects is to double click them in your
project window and kind of scrub through here and say, okay, cool, this is that crystal cave place
that I was shooting at.
So, OK, if we go to the part that we want to use, let's say that we want to start here.
I'm going to hit I and that's going to create an endpoint on this clip.
I'm going to let it play here.
OK, I like that.
And let's say I want to cut right there.
I'm going to hit.
Oh, which is going to create an outpoint on the clip.
Then the next step of this cutting method would be to click that original file and title it in your
project window.
So let's say Crystal Cave.
And I think these are called stalactites, y stalactites and stalagmites.
One, huh?
Yeah, well, the OK still lag, still lag things.
Let's just say that, OK, still I don't know yet.
Now I have this label right here, and if we move to the next clip.
OK, cool.
This is that kind of boomerang that I did at sunset.
So we'll say boomerang at sunset.
And as you can see, if I were to go through and do this to every single clip that I want to use, I
would have a kind of a more library categorized by letters version of where all my clips are.
OK.
The second option is my much more my favorite a lot more practical, a lot more easy is to have all
this footage here, the sequence, and scrub through it.
And I want to do that same process.
But it's actually going to be happening in the timeline.
And your timeline is where your video takes place.
So we can scrub through, let's say I want to start at this point here.
I'm going to hit see to bring up my blade tool and I'm going to click to create a cut.
Then I'm going to delete that extra footage that we're not going to use.
And a little bit of a hack here.
Is to hold Alz when you hit delete.
What this is going to do is create what's called a ripple delete, which essentially is going to take
out this empty space.
OK.
So another way to do that is to hit delete on what we don't want.
And you right click and you see out highlights that empty space boom, ripple delete.
So ripple delete is essentially taking out what you don't want, but then scooting over the entire sequence
to fill that empty space of what you just took out.
I'm then going to scrub through and right about there, I'm going to create another cut.
And really, what you're looking for here in pulling these Selex is finding that good two to three second
moment.
Could be ten seconds, could be one second.
It really depends on the shot type.
But there's always going to be.
And as an editor, you're keeping in mind what you want the viewer to be seeing.
So for any shot that you're shooting, there's always going to be a beginning and an end.
And it's kind of a it's a feeling that you'll have.
But if I undo what we did here, this is not the best example, but it should work for what we're doing.
If I hit play, you can see there's kind of an intro that's going here.
Not much happening.
And then we start this nice vertical movement and you see, wow, look at this cave.
And then the pan and the tilt that I was doing by hand with the camera stops and then it starts heading
the other way.
So to me, when I'm seeing that, I'm seeing the end of the first shot and I'm actually seeing the beginning
of a different shot.
This is kind of a different shot, right?
That's a totally different shot.
So you kind of have in this situation and with your own footage, you'll see you have two different
options for one shot or very much one clear option.
Or, you know, it's going to be different for every single kind of shot.
But it's very clear here that not much going on, not much going on.
And then, boom, as I'm tilting up.
OK, that's where I want my clip to start.
I play it through.
It's interesting.
I'm looking.
There's a lot to see.
And then.
Boom.
It kind of ends there and the camera starts to go a different way.
If I really wanted to continue that shot, it's possible if there was something else there was important
that happened at this point, then we would keep it in.
But in this phase of pulling Selex, we want to really trim out what we're not going to use.
So because I know this is the end of the shot, I'm going to create that cut and just kind of pan through
to make sure I'm not missing anything interesting.
And then I know I'm not, so I'm gonna rip or delete.